 Application Tokens | Socrata Toggle navigation SODA Developers App Developers App Developers Getting Started Finding Open Data Examples Data Visualization with Plotly and Pandas Data Analysis with Python and pandas using Jupyter Notebook Using R and Shiny to Find Outliers with Scatter and Box Plots Analyzing Open Data with SAS Building SMS Applications with Twilio Forecasting with RSocrata Making a heatmap with R Create a column chart with Highcharts Generating a within_box() query with Leaflet.js Using a jQueryUI date slider to build a SODA Query Data Analysis with Python, Pandas, and Bokeh Animated Heatmap with Heatmap.js Build a physical "Traffic Light" Google Maps Mashup Google Maps with KML Simple column chart with D3 SDKs & Libraries PhpSoda Google Android .NET DataSync SDK (Java) Elixr ember-socrata go-soda Apple iOS Java javascript Julia PHP PowerShell Python (Dataset Management API) Python R Ruby Scala Swift Data Publishers Data Publishers Publisher Guide APIs for Publishing Data SODA Producer API Dataset Management API Tools & Connectors Connectors & ETL Templates Pentaho Kettle RSocrata Safe FME Socrata Datasync SDKs & Libraries PhpSoda .NET DataSync SDK (Java) ember-socrata go-soda Java javascript PHP PowerShell Python (Dataset Management API) Python R Ruby Examples Visualizing data using the Google Calendar Chart Scrubbing data with Python Gauge Visualizations using the Google Charts library Pulling data from Hadoop and Publishing to Socrata Using Pentaho to Read data from Salesforce and Publish to Socrata Using a SSIS to write to a Socrata Dataset Pentaho Kettle ETL Toolkit Using a Wufoo form to write to a Socrata Dataset Pushing Sensor Data to Socrata Using the FME Socrata Writer Upsert via soda-ruby API Docs Overview API Endpoints Row Identifiers RESTful Verbs Application Tokens Authentication Response Codes & Headers System Fields CORS & JSONP Querying SoQL Queries SoQL Function and Keyword Listing Data Transform Functions Data Formats JSON GeoJSON CSV RDF-XML Datatypes Checkbox Fixed Timestamp Floating Timestamp Line Location MultiLine MultiPoint MultiPolygon Number Point Polygon Text URL Other APIs Libraries & SDKs Socrata was acquired by Tyler Technologies in 2018 and is now the Data and Insights division of Tyler. The platform is still powered by the same software formerly known as Socrata but you will see references to Data & Insights going forward. Learn more... : For more information see status.socrata.com . Application Tokens Overview API Endpoints Row Identifiers RESTful Verbs Application Tokens Authentication Response Codes & Headers System Fields CORS & JSONP Querying SoQL Queries SoQL Function and Keyword Listing Data Transform Functions Data Formats JSON GeoJSON CSV RDF-XML Datatypes Checkbox Fixed Timestamp Floating Timestamp Line Location MultiLine MultiPoint MultiPolygon Number Point Polygon Text URL Other APIs The Socrata Open Data API uses application tokens for two purposes: Using an application token allows us to throttle by application, rather than via IP address, which gives you a higher throttling limit Authentication using OAuth Throttling limits Without an application token, we can only track usage and perform throttling based on a few simple criteria, mainly source IP address. As such, requests that aren’t using an application token come from a shared pool via IP address. IP addresses that make too many requests during a given period may be subject to throttling. When requests are made using an application token, we can actually attribute each request to a particular application and developer, granting each their own pool of API requests. Currently we do not throttle API requests that are using an application token, unless those requests are determined to be abusive or malicious. We reserve the right to change these throttling limits with notice, and we will post an update to announce any such change. If you are throttled for any reason, you will receive a status code 429 response . Don’t be a jerk! Yes, I know it says you get unlimited requests . But keep in mind that you’re using a shared platform, and you should still be deliberate in how you design your application to use our API. Applications that are determined to be abusive or malicious, or that otherwise monopolize the use of our API may be throttled. If we detect that your application is nearing the point where we may have to throttle it, we will likely pro-actively reach out to you to discuss how you can optimize your usage. If you have any questions, feel free to contact us and we’d be glad to help! Obtaining an Application Token You can obtain an application token by registering for one in your Socrata profile. Using your Application Token While it is possible to perform simple unauthenticated queries against the Socrata Open Data API without making use of an application token, you’ll receive much higher throttling limits if you include an application token in your requests. If you elect not to use an application token, you’ll be subjected to a much lower throttling limit for all requests originating from your IP address. Here’s how you include the application token in the request: SODA Version Method 3.0, 2.x Use the X-App-Token HTTP header. 2.1, 2.0 Use the $$app_token parameter in your request. 1.0 Use the app_token parameter in your request. Using the header is the preferred method. Note: Application tokens are not necessarily used for authentication, but you should still preserve the security of your application token by always using HTTPS requests. If your application token is duplicated by another developer, their requests will count against your quota. The following is an example of using the X-App-Token HTTP header to pass an application token: POST /api/v3/views/kzjm-xkqj/query.json HTTP / 1.1 Host : data.seattle.gov Accept : application/json X-App-Token : [REDACTED] The same application token could also be passed as a URL parameter: The TryIt macro has been disabled until future notice while we upgrade this site to SODA3. Using the Application Token as part of the OAuth 2.0 authentication process Application tokens can also be used for authentication using OAuth 2.0. For more information, see the authentication section. Licensed by Tyler Technologies under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 . Learn how you can contribute! 
